.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii qtads.6
.TH QTADS 6 "May 2023" " " "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
QTads \- Multimedia interpreter for TADS games
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qtads [
.I game-file
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B QTads
is an interpreter that can run games written in TADS. TADS is a programming language written
by Michael J.\ Roberts, designed to implement text-adventure games (Interactive Fiction),
similar to those developed by Infocom in 1980-1990, as well as other companies (like Legend
Entertainment, Level 9, etc). If you liked games like "Zork", "Adventure", "Trinity", or
"Eric the Unready", you'll feel right at home.
.PP
This version of QTads supports both TADS versions in use today; traditional TADS 2 as well as
the new TADS 3 format. It runs on a variety of systems, including MS Windows and every Unix
system for which the Qt library is available, including Linux and Mac OSX.
.SH OPTIONS
With no arguments, QTads will by default ask you for a filename, unless this prompting has
been disabled in the configuration dialog.
.PP
The optional
.I filename
can be used to start a game immediately.
.SH LICENSE
QTads is a Free program, licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPL).  See the file
COPYING (included in the package of the program), or the "Help->About" menu for details.
.SH AUTHORS
This program is written and maintained by Nikos Chantziaras <realnc@gmail.com>.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The reference implementation of the TADS VM was done by Mike Roberts. Several people helped
making QTads a better program. See the file CREDITS or the "Help->About" menu for a list of
names.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR frotz (6),
.BR inform (1)
